# UNICEF Migration Web App

This guide is for setting up and deploying the migration dashboard application. There following sections are implemented in any order, but they all need to be for the application to work effectively. This guide references official documentation from service providers which will ensure up-to-date information. These include:

1. [Carto setup](#1-carto).
2. [Auth0 setup](#2-auth0).
3. [React setup](#3-react).

## 1. Carto

To set up Carto, please go through the following procedures (skip to 3, if you are using an existing account):

1. Creating your Carto Organisation ([link](https://docs.carto.com/carto-user-manual/overview/creating-your-carto-organization)).
2. Importing data ([link](https://docs.carto.com/carto-user-manual/data-explorer/importing-data)).
3. Generating Access Token ([link](https://docs.carto.com/carto-user-manual/developers/api-access-tokens)).
   - The generated access token with be used in the react application to grain access to the selected datasets.

## 2. Auth0

This dashboard utilizes auth0 for user management. This part will guide you on how to set up auth0, this will be required before deploying the application.

1. Create an account with Auth0.
2. Create an application to integrate the Auth0 platform ([link](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/applications/application-settings)).

After creating an application, you will be provided with a client ID and Domain, these will be used as environmental variables for setting up the react application in the next section.

## 3. React

There are certain deployment requirements and strategies that must be considered. This includes configuring the necessary environment variables for the application to function correctly.

For this application, the required environmental variables included:

1. **REACT_APP_CARTO_ACCESS_TOKEN**: This access token is the one generated by the Carto platform ([1.3.](#1-carto)).
2. **REACT_APP_AUTH0_DOMAIN**: This variable represents the URL or domain provided by Auth0 ([2.2.](#2-auth0)).
3. **REACT_APP_AUTH0_CLIENT_ID**: This variable is provided by Auth0 ([2.2.](#3-react)).

This application build using `Carto for React` template 3 with typescript, and uses `yarn` as the package manager. Make sure your using `Node v16.13.0` for compatibility in development.

### Required Packages

Make sure the following packages are install in their correct version

- `carto-react v1.5.1`

- `deck.gl v8`

- `mui v4`

- `react v17`

### Project Setup

install project using yarn

### `yarn install`

### Available Scripts

In the project directory, you will find some scripts ready to run. Here you have the command using the Yarn package manager, which we recommend, but you can also run them with npm:

### `yarn start`

Runs the app in the development mode.

Open [https://127.0.0.1:3000](https://127.0.0.1:3000) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.

You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `yarn build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.

It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.

Your app is ready to be deployed!

See the section about [deployment](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/deployment) for more information.

### `yarn eject`

**Note: this is a one-way operation. Once you `eject`, you can’t go back!**

If you aren’t satisfied with the build tool and configuration choices, you can `eject` at any time. This command will remove the single build dependency from your project.

Instead, it will copy all the configuration files and the transitive dependencies (Webpack, Babel, ESLint, etc) right into your project so you have full control over them. All of the commands except `eject` will still work, but they will point to the copied scripts so you can tweak them. At this point you’re on your own.

You don’t have to ever use `eject`. The curated feature set is suitable for small and middle deployments, and you shouldn’t feel obligated to use this feature. However we understand that this tool wouldn’t be useful if you couldn’t customize it when you are ready for it.

## Dockerfile

You can run the system on a docker container

```
docker build -t aurora-front .
docker run -e /path/to/.env -p 3000:3000 aurora-front
```

For the variables required for the `.env` file, please [refer to](https://github.com/Auh3b/immap-migration-dashboard/blob/main/.env.dist) `.env.dist`

## Steps for Netlify Deployment

Netlify is a popular platform for deploying and hosting web applications, providing a streamlined and automated deployment process. Below, I'll outline the basic steps for deploying a website to Netlify and provide some links to official documentation for more detailed information.

1. **Create a Netlify Account:**
   If you don't already have a Netlify account, sign up for one at [Netlify's website](https://app.netlify.com/signup).

2. **Connect Your Repository to Netlify:**
   Go to the Netlify dashboard and click on "New site from Git." Connect your Git repository and configure your build settings.

3. **Configure Build Settings:**
   Netlify will automatically detect many popular frameworks, but you might need to specify build commands and output directories in the dashboard if your project is not auto-detected.

   - **Environmental Variables**
     You need required environmental variables:

     | Name                         | Variable                                                                                                                                   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
     | ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
     | CI                           | false                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
     | NODE_OPTIONS                 | --max_old_space_size=4096                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
     | NODE_VERSION                 | 16.13                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
     | REACT_APP_AUTH0_CLIENT_ID    |                                                                                                                                            | The ID of the Auth0 Application you set up earlier in this quickstart. You can find this in the Auth0 Dashboard under your Application's Settings in the Client ID field                                                |
     | REACT_APP_AUTH0_DOMAIN       | The domain of your Auth0 tenant. Generally, you can find this in the Auth0 Dashboard under your Application's Settings in the Domain field |                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
     | REACT_APP_CARTO_ACCESS_TOKEN |                                                                                                                                            | API Access Tokens are the simplest method of authorization for a developer or an application to use the CARTO APIs. For more information: [Link](https://docs.carto.com/carto-user-manual/developers/api-access-tokens) |

4. **Deploy Your Site:**
   Once your repository is connected, Netlify will automatically trigger a build and deploy your site. You can monitor the build process in the Netlify dashboard.

5. **Custom Domain (Optional):**
   If you have a custom domain, you can configure it in the "Domain settings" section of the Netlify dashboard.

### Official Documentation

1. **Netlify Documentation:**
   Netlify's documentation is comprehensive and covers a wide range of topics. Start with the [official documentation](https://docs.netlify.com/) to explore various features and configurations.

2. **Netlify CLI:**
   The Netlify CLI allows you to manage your Netlify projects from the command line. You can install it using npm:

   ```bash
   npm install -g netlify-cli
   ```

   Check out the [Netlify CLI documentation](https://docs.netlify.com/cli/get-started/) for more information.

3. **Netlify Configuration File (`netlify.toml`):**
   Learn more about the `netlify.toml` configuration file in the [official documentation](https://docs.netlify.com/configure-builds/file-based-configuration/).

4. **Continuous Deployment:**
   Understand more about Netlify's continuous deployment features in the [Continuous Deployment documentation](https://docs.netlify.com/site-deploys/overview/).

Remember to check the documentation for the specific technologies and frameworks you are using in your project, as there may be additional considerations for certain setups.

## Documentation

For documentation for this application, go here: [link](/docs/)
